Field of Artificial Intelligence or AI, is concerned with not just understanding but also building intelligent entities; machines that can computer how to act effectively and safely in a wide variety of novel situations.

General subfields of AI : learning, reasoning, perception ... AND Specific subfields : chess, maths, architecture, poetry ...

Researchers pursue several different versions of AI.
   Human v/s Rational	
	Some defined intelligence in terms of fidelity to HUMAN PERFORMANCE - does the system mimic how humans operate
	Others prefer an abstract, formal definition : RATIONALITY - does the system achieve optimal, logically correct outcomes

   Thought v/s Behaviour
	Some consider intelligeence to be a property of INTERNAL THOUGHT PROCESS and REASONING
	Others focus on intelligent BEHAVIOUR; an external characterization

Pursuit of human-like intelligence must be somewhat related to psychology, involving observations and hypotheses about actual human behaviour and thought process 
A rationalist approach involvees a combination of mathematics and engineering, and connects to statistics, control theory and economics.

ACTING HUMANLY : The turing test approach

Turing test proposed by Alan Turing was designeed as a thought experiment that would sidestep the philosophical vagueness of the question "Can a machine think?". A computer passed the test if a human interrogator, after posing some 
written question, cannot tell whether the responses come from a person or a computer.

The computer would need the following capabilities : 
	natural language processing 		to communicate succesgully in a human language
	knowledge representation		to store what it knows or hears
	automated reasoning			to answer question and to draw new conclusion
	machine learning			to adapt to new circumstances and to detect and extrapolate patterns

Other researchers proposed a Total Turing Test, which requires interaction with objects and people in the real world
	computer vision	and speech recognition	to percieve the world
	robotics				to manipulate objects and move about


THINKING HUMANLY : The cognitive modeling approach

To say that a program thinks like a human, we must know how humans think :
	introspection			trying to catch our own thoughts as they go by
	psychological experiments	observing a person in action
	brain imaging			observing the brain in action

Once we have a sufficiently precise theory of mind, it becomes possible to express the theory as a computer program. If program's I/O matches corresponding human behaviour, that is evidence that some of the programs's mechanisms
could also be operating in humans.

Not content merely to have their program solve problemsn correctly, but more concrene with comparing the sequence and timing of its reasoning steps to thos of human subject solving the same problems.


THINKING RATIONALLY : The laws of thought approach

Aristotle's syllogisms provided patterns for argument structures that always yielded correct conclusions when given correct premises. These laws of thought were supposed to govern the operation of the mid; their study initiated the 
field called LOGIC.

Logicians developed a precise notation for statements about bjects in the world and the relations amongst them. The logicist tradition in AI hopes to build on such programs to create intelligent systems.

Logic as conventionally understood requires knowledge of the world that is CERTAIN; a condition that in reality is seldom achieved. The THEORY OF PROBABILITY fills this gap, allowing rigorous reasoning with uncertian information.
	It allows the construction of a comprehensive model of rational thought, leading from raw perceptual information to an understanding of how the world works to predictions of the future.

What is does not do is generate INTELLIGENT BEHAVIOUR; rational action.


ACTING RATIONALLY : The rational agent approach

An AGENT is just something that acts. 

All computer programs do something but agents are expected to more : operate autonomously, percieve their environment, persist over a prolonged time period, adapt to change and create and pursue goals,

A RATIONAL AGENT us one that acts so as to achieve the best outcome or, the best expected outcome (when there is uncertainity).

Sometimes part of being a rational agent is making correct inferences, because one way to act rationally is to deduce that a given action is best and then to act on that conclusion.
On the other hand there are ways of acting rationally that cannot be said to involve inference. A REFLEX ACTION.


All the skills needed for the turing test also allow an agent to act rationally. Knowledge representaion and reasoning enable agents to reach good decisions. We need to be able to generate comprehensible sentences in natural language to 
get by in a complex society. We need learning not only for erudition, but also it improves our ability to generate effective behaviour, especially in circumstances that are new.

Rational Agent approach has two advantages :
	1. More general than "laws of thought" approach - Correct inference is just one mechanism for achieving rationality.
	2. More amenable to scientific development.

The standard of rationality is mathematically well defined and completely general.

Over the years, AI has focused on the study and construction of agents that do the right things. What counts as right thing is defined by the objective we provide to the agent. We might call it the STANDARD MODEL.

One important refinement in the standard model is to take account for the fact that perfect rationality, always taking the exactly optimal action, is not feasible in complex environments.
	The computational demands are just too high. 

BENEFICIAL machines
The standard model has been a useful guide for AI research since its inception but it is probably not the right model in the long run as it assumes that we will supply a fully specified objective to the machine.

In the real world it becomes more and more difficult to sprecify the objective completely and correctly.

Value alignment problem : The problem of achieving agreement between our true preferences and the objective we put into the machine.
	The values or objectives we put into the machine must be aligned with those of a human. In a lab or simulator we can just reset and fix the objective but as the field progresses towards increasingly capable intelligent	
		systems that are deployes in the real world this approach is no longer viable. An incorrect objective will produce negative consequences and the more intelligent the system, more negative the consequences.

	It is impossible to anticipate all the ways in which a machine pursuing a fixed objective might misbehave. We dont want machines that are intelligent in the sense of pursuing their objectives; we want them to pursue	
		our objectives. If we cannot transfer those objectives perfectly to the machine we then need a new formulation, one in which the machine is pursuing our objectives but is necessarily uncertaion as to what they are.

	When a machine knows that it doesnt know the complete objective, it has an incentive to act cautiously, ask permission, learn more about our preferences through observation and to defer to human control.
	Ultimately we want agents that are PROVABLY BENEFICIAL TO HUMANS.

	