CYBERSECURITY

Protection of systems, networks and data from digital attacks.
. Safeguard sensitive data
. Prevent unauthorized access
. Mitigate cyberattacks - reduce system compromise risks

3 Core Pillars : CIA
. Confidentiality
. Integrity
. Availability

* WannaCry Ransomware :- SMB exploit : Windows 7 : Eternal blue vulnerability
* Bitcoin/ Cryptocurrency :- Untraceable

Cybersec domains : Network security, application security, information security, disaster recovery

Types of hackers
. White hackers : Hack with permission to find vulnerabilities and foresee attack risks
. Black hackers : Unauthorized access to data and threaten to sell to competitors in exchange for money or some other thing
. Grey hackers : Find vulnerabilities in system (w/o permission) and report it to company (bug bounty) to recieve some compensation. May or may not harm the system.
. Hacktivist : Hack in order to promote a political or social agenda

RISK = Threat X Vulnerability X Impact
. Threat : Potential attacker
. Vulnerability : Weakness in the system
. Exploit : Method of attacking a vulnerability

Security principles
. Layered Security
. Authentication : User identity verification
. Authorization : Control user access rights
. Monitoring & Logging : Track security activities
. Physical Security : Prevent hardware tampering

Cryptography
. Securing information through encoding techniques to ensure only authorized parties can access it.

Symmetric encryption
. Unencrypted plaintext message ---> Encryption key ---> Encrypted ciphertext ---> Decryption key ---> Decrypted plaintext message
. Same key is used for both encryption and decryption
. Key + Cipherdata both are shared on the internet : Makes it vulnerable to key interception
. AES/DES algorithm used.

Asymmetric encryption
. Two keys used : One public and one private
. Encryption is done by sender using their private key and then public key of sender is used by receiver to decrypt after recieving
. Public key is generated/derived from the private key 
. Public key is shared between client and server
. More secure but slower than symmetric encryption

Hash function : Produce a fixed-length string from data to ensure integrity
. One-way and irreversible and it is case sensitive
. It is used to store passwords and in blockchains : when password is entered during login, it is converted to hash and checked against database to see if it is same.
* HASHCAT

Salting : Adds random 16 bit 'salt' to the hash to prevent hash decoding.
. There are databases which contain hashes of common passwords. Adding salt to hash randomizes it so that it cannot be decoded from these databases.

Digital signature : Verify message authenticity and integrity ensuring it wasn't tampered with
. Created using sender's private key
. Verified with sender's public key

Certificates and Public Key Infrastructure (PKI)
. PKI enables secure communication over the internet using certificate authorities
. Digital certificates link identity to public keys
. Used in SSL/TLS

Common cryptography tools
. OpenSSL for secure communications
. GPG for file and email enryption
. Hashcat for passwordd security testing
. VeraCrypt for disk encryption

OpenSSL and Linux commands:
ls -alh 										: list all files including hidden and "h" used to properly show space used by file
echo / touch 										: create file

echo "text" > file.txt
touch file
cat file.txt										: print content of file

openssl genrsa > privatekey.pem 							: generate private key
openssl rsa -in privatekey.pem -pubout -out publickey.key 				: create public key from private key
openssl pkeyutl -encrypt -inkey publickey.key -pubin -in file.txt -out encrypted.txt 	: encrypt file using public key 
